Make the validating guide self-contained (#5076)
status-im/nim-beacon-chain: docs/the_nimbus_book/src/run-a-validator.md

    While not needed, advanced users may want to use a [separate validator client](./validator-client.md) instead.

## Overview

> To start validating, you need to do these three steps, which will be explained in more detail below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start validating, you need to do these three steps, explained in more detail below:
```

1. [Make a deposit](./run-a-validator.md#1-make-a-deposit-for-your-validator) for your validator.
2. [Import your validator keys](./run-a-validator.md#2-import-your-validator-keys) into Nimbus.
3. [Start performing validator duties](./run-a-validator.md#3-start-validating) by restarting the node.

## 1. Make a deposit for your validator

To make a deposit, you will need to generate keys then submit a deposit transaction to the execution chain.

!!! tip "Launchpad"
    The process of setting up a validator is also documented at the Ethereum launchpad site:

    * [Mainnet](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/)
    * [Goerli/Prater EthStaker Launchpad](https://goerli.launchpad.ethstaker.cc/en/) or [Goerli/Prater EF Launchpad](https://prater.launchpad.ethereum.org/)

!!! tip

>     Use Prater to stress test and future proof your set up against peak mainnet load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use Prater to stress test and future-proof your setup against peak mainnet load.
```

There's not currently a great answer/approach to this, unfortunately, because https://prater.beaconcha.in/ shows Prater has 462k active validators, while mainnet has 614k validators with a pending queue of 93k validators, so it'll reach 700k within a month or two.

So the spirit of this is correct, and in some ways, Prater is more demanding -- it's less stable, there are more reorgs, etc -- but also, its base load is significantly less than mainnet and that gap will continue to grow.

I think the actionable thing here is along the lines of rephrasing to keep the claims more verifiably/unambiguously true, without making it 3x longer to explain mostly non-salient background detail.

Reviewer: Later this year, https://github.com/eth-clients/holesky will launch, and it should be larger again than mainnet, but that doesn't help until September or October.

Author: I rephrased this part, so it doesn't mention any stress testing.

    See [here](./prater.md) for all you need to know.

### 1. Download the deposit tool

Start by downloading and unpacking the [deposit tool](https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli/releases/latest) provided by the Ethereum Foundation:

```sh
# Enter the nimbus folder
cd nimbus-eth2

# Make sure to get the latest version from the download page
wget https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli/releases/download/v2.2.0/staking_deposit-cli-9ab0b05-linux-amd64.tar.gz

# Unpack the archive
tar xvf staking_deposit-cli-9ab0b05-linux-amd64.tar.gz --strip-components 2
```

### 2. Generate keys

!!! tip "Live image"

>     You can increase the security of this process by downloading a [Live linux image](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/try-ubuntu-before-you-install). To do so, copy `deposit` to a USB stick, boot into the live image, and run the tool from inside the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can increase the security of this process by downloading a [Live Linux image](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/try-ubuntu-before-you-install). To do so, copy `deposit` to a USB stick, boot into the live image, and run the tool from inside the image.
```

If one wants to avoid two capitalized words in a row, "Linux live image" works too.

>     Make sure you **don't** enable Wifi and unplug any Ethernet cables when using this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Make sure you **don't** enable Wi-Fi and unplug any Ethernet cables when using this process.
```

From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wi-Fi and similar sources, it looks like the most correct, official spelling and capitalization is "Wi-Fi".

The deposit tool generates a seed phrase, and uses this to create validator and withdrawal keys.

!!! danger "Seed phrase"
    If you lose you seed phrase and your withdrawal key, your funds will be lost forever!

=== "Mainnet"
    ```sh
    # Run the deposit tool and follow the instructions on screen
    ./deposit new-mnemonic --chain mainnet
    ```

=== "Prater"
    ```sh
    # Run the deposit tool and follow the instructions on screen
    ./deposit new-mnemonic --chain prater
    ```

### 3. Make the deposit

Once created, the keys are used to create a deposit transaction on the Ethereum execution chain.
Follow the instructions [here](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/en/upload-deposit-data) to upload the deposit data.

!!! warning
    If you are making a mainnet deposit make sure you verify that the deposit contract you are interacting with is the correct one.

    You should verify that the address is indeed: [0x00000000219ab540356cBB839Cbe05303d7705Fa](https://etherscan.io/address/0x00000000219ab540356cBB839Cbe05303d7705Fa)

!!! info

>     Once you send off your transaction(s), your validator will be put in a queue based on deposit time.

Reviewer: Not sure if/how it's worth elaborating on this, because what you write here is correct, but it's slightly misleading in that it's missing a step which for several hours immediately after sending off the transactions might confuse people.

In particular, there are to main steps here,
- waiting [`ETH1_FOLLOW_DISTANCE` ](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/v1.4.0-alpha.3/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#time-parameters-1) blocks, typically about 8 hours, for consensus clients to pick up the deposit transaction, then

- waiting through the pending/activation queue, as described already here.

The first part is effectively constant-time, and does not depend on how many people are trying to join, while the second does. When, as, now, the pending queue is 10k+ validators, the different isn't that significant for overall time-to-active, but it does mean that for those 8 hours, pure consensus layer tooling will show nothing about those deposits (which aren't yet pending transactions).

It might be worth noting that this is expected, and correct, and not a problem.

Reviewer: Also, a general note (this applies to https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/pull/5059#discussion_r1230841876 too), https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6110 will change how this works, but it's not in Shaplla or Dencun, so it's not going to be the deployed mainnet or testnet public setup for several months.

Author: I've made the same change as in #5059.
